China’s yuan is heading for its best annual performance in five years as growing optimism about the nation’s assets and economy outweighs concerns over US trade tensions.

The offshore yuan has strengthened by nearly 4% in 2025 as the authorities have supported the currency through their daily fixings, a rally in China stocks has lured inflows, and the dollar has weakened. Analysts remain largely bullish for 2026, with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raising its forecasts last month.

The yuan’s gain this year contrasts sharply with the first round of trade tensions in 2018, when the currency slid more than 13% from March 2018 to September 2019, driven by speculation that Beijing would weaken the yuan to support growth.

“The Chinese yuan has room to strengthen from here and the technical call is for dollar-yuan to move towards 7 per dollar sometime in 2026,” said Wee Khoon Chong, senior Asia Pacific market strategist at BNY in Hong Kong. “A stable and strong yuan plays an important role to secure the market’s and investors’ confidence.”

The yuan’s advance this year faced setbacks during the tariff chaos caused by US President Donald Trump in April and languished mid-year amid a sluggish economy. It began strengthening again in August as global risk sentiment improved.

The slump in the dollar has helped. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index has dropped by about 7% this year amid concerns about US policy uncertainty and the swollen budget deficit.

Beijing’s approach to the current US trade war differs from 2018-19. China has diversified its exports toward the Global South and extended its dominance in critical supply chains such as rare earths.

Federal Reserve interest-rate cuts are expected to weaken the dollar and help support the yuan and other Asian currencies next year, said Lin Li, head of global markets research for Asia at MUFG Bank Ltd. in Hong Kong. She forecasts China's currency may end next year at 6.95 per dollar.

Goldman Sachs raised its forecast for the onshore yuan last month, citing optimism over China’s exports and current-account surplus. The currency may appreciate to 6.95 in about three months and reach 6.85 in a year.

Former US Treasury officials Brad Setser and Mark Sobel wrote that the yuan is “hugely undervalued,” about 18% below fair value, and called for China to allow a faster pace of gains.

Stephen Jen, chief executive of Eurizon SLJ Capital, wrote that China will likely experience mounting pressure for the yuan to rally in the coming year.

However, rapid appreciation could dent China’s exports and growth, encourage inflows of hot money, and threaten financial stability.

The People’s Bank of China appears to be seeking to slow the yuan’s rally. On Monday, the central bank set its daily fixing for the currency at a weaker level than the median estimate of analysts’ forecasts, following a similar move last week, the first since July.

“If trade-deal discussions proceed smoothly, the yuan could strengthen to 7 by year-end, and further to the 6.5-to-6.8 range next year,” said Chi Lo, global market strategist at BNP Paribas Asset Management in Hong Kong. “Then, if more overseas investors are convinced China is turning around, the money that left China three years ago would come back.”