The U.S. dollar weakened against the euro, Chinese yuan, and Australian dollar on Monday as optimism over a possible U.S.-China trade deal boosted risk appetite and reduced demand for the greenback. Overall moves in currency markets were relatively muted as traders awaited several key central bank meetings this week.

U.S. President Donald Trump said the United States and China were set to "come away" with a trade deal. Trump is expected to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping this week in South Korea.

The dollar index was last down 0.11% at 98.84, with the euro up 0.15% at $1.1643. Central banks may dominate market direction later this week, with the Federal Reserve and Bank of Canada expected to cut rates on Wednesday, while the European Central Bank and Bank of Japan on Thursday are likely to leave rates unchanged. With a 25-basis-point Fed rate cut long priced in, markets will closely watch for signs the Fed may be preparing to wind down its quantitative tightening program.

The Chinese yuan was boosted by the People's Bank of China setting the official yuan midpoint rate higher than expected at 7.0881 per dollar, the strongest since October 15, 2024, and above a Reuters estimate of 7.1146. The Chinese offshore yuan rose to a more than one-month high against the dollar of 7.1015. 

The Australian dollar was last up 0.63% versus the dollar at $0.6554, supported by relatively hawkish comments from the Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Michele Bullock, who noted that a rise in core inflation of 0.9% in the third quarter would be a material miss to forecasts and would factor into interest rate decisions next week.

Traders are focused on a meeting on Tuesday between Trump and Japan's new Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi, where trade issues will be discussed. The Japanese yen has weakened recently on concerns Takaichi will implement more expansionary fiscal policies. Against the yen, the dollar was roughly flat at 152.92 yen.

Investors are also watching for indications on when the U.S. federal government will reopen amid a shutdown now in its 27th day, which is expected to significantly impact the U.S. economy. Air travel disruptions have increased, with over 2,700 flights delayed nationwide on Monday and more than 8,600 on Sunday, amid rising air traffic controller absences.

In cryptocurrencies, bitcoin gained 1.82% to $115,454.